[documentation] added upgrade note for product recalculations via queue (#2955)
shopsys/shopsys: upgrade-product-recalculations.md

# Upgrade Product Recalculations

## General changes that have to be known

This article covers the product recalculations, which means recalculation of the product visibility, selling denial, and export to Elasticsearch.

> Previous implementation was not unified and therefore may be sometimes tricky – for example, visibility had to be calculated before export to Elasticsearch; otherwise the product may be exported with wrong visibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous implementation was not unified and, therefore, may sometimes be tricky. For example, visibility had to be calculated before exporting to Elasticsearch; otherwise, the product may be exported with the wrong visibility.
```

The whole functionality of the product recalculations was changed and unified.
The main goal was to make the product recalculations as simple as possible and to make the code more readable and maintainable.

> For that reason, several schedulers, listeners, custom implementations were removed, and the recalculations are now done only by dispatching a message for the message broker and async handler then immediately recalculate the product and export to Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For that reason, several schedulers, listeners, and custom implementations were removed, and the recalculations are now done only by dispatching a message for the message broker and async handler then immediately recalculates the product and exports it to Elasticsearch.
```

> For that reason, several schedulers, listeners, and custom implementations were removed, and the recalculations are now done only by dispatching a message for the message broker and async handler then immediately recalculates the product and exports it to Elasticsearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that reason, several schedulers, listeners, and custom implementations were removed, and the recalculations are now done only by dispatching a message for the message broker and async, handler then immediately recalculates the product and exports it to Elasticsearch.
```

It's no longer necessary to think about the context of the executed code – calculations were handled differently in the console, cron, and request.
At any place where a product is somehow changed, only, and the ONLY one of the `ProductRecalculationDispatcher::dispatch\*() method has to be called.
The dispatcher and the asynchronous queue take care of the rest.

This allows, among other benefits, also to horizontally scale the recalculations.

> For larger catalog, several consumers may be run to handle the recalculations and drastically reduce the time necessary to present the changes of products on the Storefront.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a larger catalog, several consumers may be run to handle the recalculations and drastically reduce the time necessary to present the changes of products on the Storefront.
```

Because variants are tightly coupled with the main variant, the recalculations have to be always done for the whole group (variants + main variant).
But it's no longer necessary to take this into account in a custom code.
When, for example, only a single variant is changed, it's enough to dispatch a message for this variant – recalculation will be done automatically for the whole group to be sure all products are in a proper state.

Codebase and some concepts were simplified, most importantly, by removing the calculated fields from the product entity.
The following fields were removed:
`Product::$calculatedHidden`
`Product::$calculatedAvailability`
`Product::$recalculateAvailability`
`Product::$calculatedVisibility`
`Product::$recalculateVisibility`
`Product::$recalculatePrice`
`Product::$exportProduct`
The entity `ProductCalculatedPrice` was removed completely.

This lowers the size of the changes flushed to the database and helps avoid deadlock situations when recalculating the product.

In certain situations (for example, when a pricing group is created), it's necessary to recalculate all products.

> This is done by dispatching a message "dispatch all" for the message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done by dispatching a message "dispatch all" to the message broker.
```

The async handler then takes care of dispatching all product IDs to recalculation.
That way, we may dispatch all products to recalculation during request without worrying about the size of the catalog.

> Cron modules responsible for recalculations or export to elasticsearch were removed and replaced by a single cron module that dispatches all products to recalculation each day at midnight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cron modules responsible for recalculations or export to Elasticsearch were removed and replaced by a single cron module dispatching all products to recalculation each day at midnight.
```

This is a safety net to make sure all products are recalculated at least once a day.

> New command `shopsys:dispatch:recalculations` allows manual dispatch message(s) for recalculation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new command `shopsys:dispatch:recalculations` allows manual dispatch message(s) for recalculation.
```

> In tests, the real queue is not used – instead where necessary (when testing product changes), the `Tests\App\Test\WebTestCase::handleDispatchedRecalculationMessages()` method should be called to run scheduled recalculations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In tests, the real queue is not used – instead, where necessary (when testing product changes), the `Tests\App\Test\WebTestCase::handleDispatchedRecalculationMessages()` method should be called to run scheduled recalculations.
```

> That way we are sure the code works in real life – the message is truly dispatched, thus the product is recalculated – everything with the same code used in real life.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That way, we are sure the code works in real life – the message is truly dispatched. Thus, the product is recalculated – everything with the same code is used in real life.
```

Calling this method also creates a snapshot in Elasticsearch before any changes are exported and restores it afterward.

> Tests are no longer dependent on the changes made, nor the order of run tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests no longer depend on the changes made or the order of run tests.
```
